README.md, before:

### Syllabus

Please find the syllabus (updated frequently) [at this link](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/LLO-8200-Syllabus.html)

### Code for Each Topic 

*Note: When new async videos are available, they will be linked under the appropriate week.*

*To access lecture notes and/or data sets use ctrl+click on a mac or right click on a pc, then click "save link as" and save to the class directory on your computer.*

#### 1\. Welcome to Data Science: Tools of the Trade

[Lecture Notes](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/01-intro.Rmd)  

#### 2\. Analyzing Data: Conditional Means

[Lecture Notes](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/02-conditional_means.Rmd) and [Data Set](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/sc_debt.Rds)  

[Updated Async Video Part 1](https://youtu.be/NQtvxw9CNCU)

[Update Async Video Part 2](https://youtu.be/K3f-5fb-lL0)

In Class Work: [html](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/02-conditional-means-inclass.html) [.Rmd File](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/02-conditional-means-inclass.Rmd) [dataset](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/caschool.rdata)

#### 3\. Presenting Data: Descriptive Plots

[Lecture Notes](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/03-plot_means.Rmd) and  [Data Set](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/attrition.Rdata)  

Please watch async on LMS for this week. 

In Class Work: [.Rmd File](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/03-plot-means-inclass.Rmd)

#### 4\. Getting Data: Flat Files and “Tidy Data” 

[Lecture Notes](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/04-flat_data.Rmd) 

Please watch async on LMS for this week. 

In Class Work [.Rmd File](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/04-flat-data-inclass.Rmd)

#### 5\. Analyzing Data: Linear Regression

[Lecture Notes, part 1 , Rmd File](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/05-regression.Rmd)
[Lecture Notes, part 1 , HTML Version](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/05-regression.html)


[Lecture Notes, part 2 , Rmd File](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/05-regression-2.Rmd)
[Lecture Notes, part 2 , HTML Version](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/05-regression-2.html)


[Data Set](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/area_data.Rds)

Watch lecture 5.1: Introduction: From Conditional Means to Linear Regression on LMS

New lecture 5.2: bivariate regression [here](https://youtu.be/8P5CLj5Vy70) *N.B. Use lecture notes part 1 for this video*

New lecture 5.3 & 5.4 : multiple regression [here](https://youtu.be/6s5__DICHDg) *N.B. Use lecture notes part 1 for this video*

New Lecture 5.4a: regression with binary independent variables [here](https://youtu.be/llfHYO_MujY) *N.B. Use lecture notes part 2 for this video*

New Lecture 5.4b: regression with categorical independent variables [here](https://youtu.be/hm33VbjQZMY) *N.B. Use lecture notes part 2 for this video*

Watch lecture 5.5: Training and Testing on LMS

In Class Work, part 1 [.Rmd file](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/05-regression-inclass-1.Rmd)

In Class Work, part 2 [.Rmd file](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/05-regression-inclass-2.Rmd)

[Answers to Questions About Regression](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oI0oGssiwMyBo9rRfnJn9OEbQdmhLr_SGXibpzqpWFM/edit)

[Workflows, Recipes, Models](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sHU7i1eULDPc2FUSqJBaZFczoZ1Z6UqSsTNpNE0gzC4/edit?usp=sharing)


#### 6\. Presenting Data: Scatterplots

[Lecture Notes](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/06-scatterplots.Rmd)  and
[Data Set](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/els.Rdata)

Please watch async on LMS for this week

[In class work](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/06-scatterplots_inclass.Rmd) and 
[Data set](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/cex.RData)

#### 7\. Getting Data: Web Sources 

[Lecture Notes](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/07-webscraping.Rmd)

[Education Variables (if needed)](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/educ_vars.Rdata)

[Income Variables (if needed)](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/income_vars.Rdata)

Watch lectures 7.1-7.3 on LMS. 

[Watch updated 7.4 here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NHbs55PTb-g)

Watch lecture 7.5 on LMS

[In class work, part 1](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/07-webscraping-inclass-part-1.Rmd)

#### 8\. Analyzing Data: Classification  

[Lecture Notes](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/08-classification.Rmd) and [Data Set ](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/za.Rdata) and [HTML Version of Notes](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/08-classification.html)

*For First Class Session, July 14*

Watch Lecture 8.1 Introduction the Problem of Classification on the LMS

[Updated Async 8.2 The Conditional Mean as a Classifier](https://youtu.be/IIEvyvsVO7Q)

Watch Lecture 8.4 Evaluating Classifiers: Sensitivity and Specificity on the LMS

[Updated Async 8.5 Logistic Regression As a Classifier, accuracy, sensitivity and specificity](https://youtu.be/KbmEJkslBeE)

*For Second Class Session, July 21*

[Updated Async 8.6 The Area Under the Curve Measure and plotting logistic regression results](https://youtu.be/IhCJOZJv_O8)


#### 9\. Presenting Data: Plots and Tables for Classification  




#### 10\. Cross Validation  



### Assignments and Due Dates

*To access assignments use ctrl+click on a mac or right click on a pc, then click "save link as" and save to the class directory on your computer.*

*Please turn all assignments in on the course LMS as .Rmd files*

[Assignment 1, Due Midnight May 18](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/01-assignment.Rmd)

[Assignment 1 Key](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/01-assignment-key.Rmd)

[Assignment 2, Due Midnight May 25](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/02-assignment.Rmd)

[Assignment 2 Key](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/02-assignment-key.Rmd)

[Assignment 3, Due Midnight June 1](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/03-assignment.Rmd)

[Assignment 3 Key](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/03-assignment-key.Rmd)

[Assignment 4, Due Midnight June 8](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/04-assignment.Rmd)

[Assignment 4 Key](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/04-assignment-key.Rmd)

[Assignment 5, Due Midnight June 22](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/05-assignment.Rmd)

[Assignment 5 Key](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/05-assignment-key.Rmd)

[Assignment 6, Due Midnight Jun 29](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/06-assignment.Rmd)

[Assignment 6 Key](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/06-assignment-key.Rmd)

[Assignment 7, Due Midnight July 13](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/07-assignment.Rmd)
[Alternate Assignment 7](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/07-assignment-alternate.Rmd)

[Assignment 8, Due Midnight July 27](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/08-assignment.Rmd)

Assignment 9, Due Midnight August 3



Assignment 10, Due Midnight August 10

### Final Project Information

*Progres Reports*

[Progress Report 1: Due  Midnight, May 25](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/01-progress-report.Rmd)

[Progress Report 2: Due Midnight, June 22](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/02-progress-report.Rmd)

[Progress Report 3: Due Midnight, July 13](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/03-progress-report.Rmd)

[Progress Report 4: Due Midnight, July 27](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/04-progress-report.Rmd)

*Final Project Rubric and Examples*: 

[Rubric for Final Project](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/blob/main/final_project_rubric.md)

Example Final Project [.Rmd File](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/example_report.Rmd)  ["Knitted" Report](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/example_report.html)

Commit message:

Links to completed lecture notes and datasets

README.md, after:

### Syllabus

Please find the syllabus (updated frequently) [at this link](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/LLO-8200-Syllabus.html)

### Code for Each Topic 

*Note: When new async videos are available, they will be linked under the appropriate week.*

*To access lecture notes and/or data sets use ctrl+click on a mac or right click on a pc, then click "save link as" and save to the class directory on your computer.*

#### 1\. Welcome to Data Science: Tools of the Trade

[Lecture Notes](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/01-intro.Rmd)  

#### 2\. Analyzing Data: Conditional Means

[Lecture Notes](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/02-conditional_means.Rmd) and [Data Set](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/sc_debt.Rds)  

[Updated Async Video Part 1](https://youtu.be/NQtvxw9CNCU)

[Update Async Video Part 2](https://youtu.be/K3f-5fb-lL0)

In Class Work: [html](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/02-conditional-means-inclass.html) [.Rmd File](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/02-conditional-means-inclass.Rmd) [dataset](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/caschool.rdata)

#### 3\. Presenting Data: Descriptive Plots

[Lecture Notes](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/03-plot_means.Rmd) and  [Data Set](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/attrition.Rdata)  

Please watch async on LMS for this week. 

In Class Work: [.Rmd File](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/03-plot-means-inclass.Rmd)

#### 4\. Getting Data: Flat Files and “Tidy Data” 

[Lecture Notes](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/04-flat_data.Rmd) 

Please watch async on LMS for this week. 

In Class Work [.Rmd File](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/04-flat-data-inclass.Rmd)

#### 5\. Analyzing Data: Linear Regression

[Lecture Notes, part 1 , Rmd File](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/05-regression.Rmd)
[Lecture Notes, part 1 , HTML Version](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/05-regression.html)


[Lecture Notes, part 2 , Rmd File](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/05-regression-2.Rmd)
[Lecture Notes, part 2 , HTML Version](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/05-regression-2.html)


[Data Set](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/area_data.Rds)

Watch lecture 5.1: Introduction: From Conditional Means to Linear Regression on LMS

New lecture 5.2: bivariate regression [here](https://youtu.be/8P5CLj5Vy70) *N.B. Use lecture notes part 1 for this video*

New lecture 5.3 & 5.4 : multiple regression [here](https://youtu.be/6s5__DICHDg) *N.B. Use lecture notes part 1 for this video*

New Lecture 5.4a: regression with binary independent variables [here](https://youtu.be/llfHYO_MujY) *N.B. Use lecture notes part 2 for this video*

New Lecture 5.4b: regression with categorical independent variables [here](https://youtu.be/hm33VbjQZMY) *N.B. Use lecture notes part 2 for this video*

Watch lecture 5.5: Training and Testing on LMS

In Class Work, part 1 [.Rmd file](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/05-regression-inclass-1.Rmd)

In Class Work, part 2 [.Rmd file](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/05-regression-inclass-2.Rmd)

[Answers to Questions About Regression](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oI0oGssiwMyBo9rRfnJn9OEbQdmhLr_SGXibpzqpWFM/edit)

[Workflows, Recipes, Models](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sHU7i1eULDPc2FUSqJBaZFczoZ1Z6UqSsTNpNE0gzC4/edit?usp=sharing)


#### 6\. Presenting Data: Scatterplots

[Lecture Notes](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/06-scatterplots.Rmd)  and
[Data Set](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/els.Rdata)

Please watch async on LMS for this week

[In class work](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/06-scatterplots_inclass.Rmd) and 
[Data set](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/cex.RData)

#### 7\. Getting Data: Web Sources 

[Lecture Notes](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/07-webscraping.Rmd)

[Education Variables (if needed)](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/educ_vars.Rdata)

[Income Variables (if needed)](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/income_vars.Rdata)

Watch lectures 7.1-7.3 on LMS. 

[Watch updated 7.4 here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NHbs55PTb-g)

Watch lecture 7.5 on LMS

[In class work, part 1](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/07-webscraping-inclass-part-1.Rmd)

#### 8\. Analyzing Data: Classification  

[Lecture Notes](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/08-classification.Rmd) and [Data Set ](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/za.Rdata) and [HTML Version of Notes](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/08-classification.html)

*For First Class Session, July 14*

Watch Lecture 8.1 Introduction the Problem of Classification on the LMS

[Updated Async 8.2 The Conditional Mean as a Classifier](https://youtu.be/IIEvyvsVO7Q)

Watch Lecture 8.4 Evaluating Classifiers: Sensitivity and Specificity on the LMS

[Updated Async 8.5 Logistic Regression As a Classifier, accuracy, sensitivity and specificity](https://youtu.be/KbmEJkslBeE)

*For Second Class Session, July 21*

[Updated Async 8.6 The Area Under the Curve Measure and plotting logistic regression results](https://youtu.be/IhCJOZJv_O8)


#### 9\. Presenting Data: Plots and Tables for Classification  

Watch the LMS lectures for section 9 for this week. 

[Lecture Notes](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/09-plots_classification.Rmd) and [Data Set](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/za.Rdata)


#### 10\. Cross Validation  
[Lecture Notes](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/10-cross_validation.Rmd) 


### Assignments and Due Dates

*To access assignments use ctrl+click on a mac or right click on a pc, then click "save link as" and save to the class directory on your computer.*

*Please turn all assignments in on the course LMS as .Rmd files*

[Assignment 1, Due Midnight May 18](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/01-assignment.Rmd)

[Assignment 1 Key](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/01-assignment-key.Rmd)

[Assignment 2, Due Midnight May 25](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/02-assignment.Rmd)

[Assignment 2 Key](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/02-assignment-key.Rmd)

[Assignment 3, Due Midnight June 1](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/03-assignment.Rmd)

[Assignment 3 Key](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/03-assignment-key.Rmd)

[Assignment 4, Due Midnight June 8](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/04-assignment.Rmd)

[Assignment 4 Key](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/04-assignment-key.Rmd)

[Assignment 5, Due Midnight June 22](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/05-assignment.Rmd)

[Assignment 5 Key](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/05-assignment-key.Rmd)

[Assignment 6, Due Midnight Jun 29](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/06-assignment.Rmd)

[Assignment 6 Key](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/06-assignment-key.Rmd)

[Assignment 7, Due Midnight July 13](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/07-assignment.Rmd)
[Alternate Assignment 7](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/07-assignment-alternate.Rmd)

[Assignment 8, Due Midnight July 27](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/08-assignment.Rmd)

Assignment 9, Due Midnight August 3



[Assignment 10, Due Midnight August 10](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/10-assignment.Rmd)

### Final Project Information

*Progres Reports*

[Progress Report 1: Due  Midnight, May 25](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/01-progress-report.Rmd)

[Progress Report 2: Due Midnight, June 22](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/02-progress-report.Rmd)

[Progress Report 3: Due Midnight, July 13](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/03-progress-report.Rmd)

[Progress Report 4: Due Midnight, July 27](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/04-progress-report.Rmd)

*Final Project Rubric and Examples*: 

[Rubric for Final Project](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/blob/main/final_project_rubric.md)

Example Final Project [.Rmd File](https://github.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/raw/main/example_report.Rmd)  ["Knitted" Report](https://raw.githack.com/wdoyle42/ll0_8200_summer_21/main/example_report.html)
